---
title:  "106 Degree Diaries Entry #1"
date:   2022-06-13
author: Jonah Barber
---

Greetings team from Tucson Arizona! Such is the nature of summer training in Arizona that things do not go to plan. Not willing to wake up at 5AM to run, I'm usually forced to run in the evening in breezy 100+ degree heat. Yesterday, I conveniently forgot I had an evening shift at my local ice cream parlor, the Screamery, and with an hour before my shift I rocketed out of my bed and frantically put on my running shorts. It was 5pm and still sunny out; a 106 degree hellscape awaited me out of my front doors, and although I tried to wet my cap before heading out, the hose was so baked by the sun that only scalding hot water oozed out of its orifice. To avert any potential catastrophes, i.e. getting stranded on a desert trail with no water or help, I chose to do 4 laps of a one mile loop in my neighborhood. Within 0.5 miles I was scorched, and my mind and body both screamed to turn back to my AC cooled home. The words of Ray Appenheimer emerged from the surface of my subconscious, however, and I chose to tough the next 3.5 miles out: "Not a f\*\*\*\*\*\* inch". Each step was agony, each breath labored, and somehow I discovered new areas of my body in which I could feel pain in. Pollen was swirling in the hot gusts of desert air that blasted me infrequently, so that my eyes became dry, red, and itchy. But it's days like these that define my relationship with running; I chose to complete those 4 loops of hell out of sheer willpower, and arrive at the Screamery with a red flushed face, slightly dazed, starved for calories and electrolytes, but ready to greet the irritable patrons of the Screamery with a smile and laugh, because I, Jonah Barber, had gone out for a run that day.